---
published: true
title: "[MR 연구] RAKI"
last_modified_at: 2024-07-29
categories:
  - 메디컬연구
tags:
  - 메디컬연구
  - MR Reconstruction
  - scan specific
  - patient specific
  - parallel imaging
  - SENSE (sensitivity encoding)
  - GRAPPA (generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition
  - SPIRiT
excerpt: "Scan‐specific robust artificial‐neural‐networks for k‐space interpolation (RAKI) reconstruction: Database‐free deep learning for fast imaging"
use_math: true
classes: wide
comments: true
---

> [[Scan-specific robust artificial-neural-networks for k-space interpolation (RAKI) reconstruction: Database-free deep learning for fast imaging](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/mrm.27420)]

The two most common parallel imaging approaches are

- SENSE (sensitivity encdoing)
- GRAPPA (generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition

### SENSE

**SENSE** is a reconstruction approach that **is formulated in the image domain** as a **linear inverse problem** with a priori knowledge of the **receiver sensitivities.**

### GRAPA

**GRAPPA**: the reconstrution is an **interpolation in k-space using shift-invariant convolutional kernels** to **estimate missing k-space lines** from acquired lines, which constitutes a linear reconstruction method.

- **These convolutional kernels are determined from a small amount of fully sampled reference data**, referred to as **autocalibration signal (ACS).**

 ### SPIRiT 

 **SPIRiT**: iterative self-consistent parallel imaging reconstruction, which iteratively performs local interpolation and enforces data consistency has also been proposed, facilitating the use of regularization in the reconstruction process.
 
### Clinical Radiologists

- Although the **inherent denoising properties of CS-based techniques are desirable**, the need for incoherent undersampled acquisitions, as well as its residual artifacts that are not readily accepted by clinical radiologists, have hindered its deployment.
- Therefore, **even though noise amplification remains a challenge for the linear reconstruction algorithms used in parallel imaging**, these approaches continue to be the prominent technique for accelerated imaging in clinical MRI.

### The focus of the MRI reconstruction

- The focus of the MRI reconstruction community has been on **generating more advanced regularizers** by training on large amounts of data sets, along with both random and uniform undersampling patterns.
- **Commonly, this training is performed in a manner that is not patient- or scan-specific, and there fore requires large databases of MR images.**

### RAKI

- RAKI is a k-space reconstruction method that uses deep learning on a small amount of scan-specific ACSdata.
- This study focuses on uniformly undersampled acquisitions, to improve the quality of parallel imaging reconstructions and for integration with existing data acquisition approaches.
- However, extensions to other sampling patterns such as random and non-Cartesian are possible within the described k-space method.
- Unlike most recent deep learning approaches, the proposed scheme does not require any training database of images.
- Instead, the neural networks are trained for each specific scan, or set of scans, **with a limited amount of ACS data, simliar to GRAPPA.**

### RAKI contribution

- ***Instead of*** **generating linear convolutional kernels from the ACS data as in k-space interpolation-based methods such as GRAPPA**, RAKI learns nonlinear convolutional neural networks from the ACS data.
- Using scan- and subject-specific deep learning, and learning all the necessary neural network parameters from the ACS data, any dependence on training databases or assumptions about image compressibility are avoided.
- RAKI is non-linear reconstruction approach.
- Phantom experiments and in vivo imaging are performed, comparing RAKI to the GRAPPA parallel imaging approach.


### Redundancies in the multi-coil acquisition

- Because the encdoing process in a multi-coil MRI acquisition is linear, the reconstruction for sub-sampled data is also expected to be linear.
- This is the premise of linear parallel imaging methods, which aim to estimate the underlying reconstruction process that exploits redundancies in the mmulti-coil acquisition, using a linear system with a few degrees of freedom.
- These degrees of freedom
  - captured in the sampll convolutional kernel sizes for GRAPPA
  - or the smooth coil sensitivity maps for SENSE
- In essence, linear functions with such limited degrees of freedoms form a subset of all linear functions.
- **In linear parallel imaging, the underlying reconstruction is approximated with a function from this restricted subset.**

### RAKI에서는 non-linear mapping 사용

- We hypothesize that this restricted, yet non-linear, function space defined through CNNs enables to non-linearly learn redundancies among coils, **without learning specific k-space characteristics**, which may lead to overfitting.
- This is simliar to the GRAPPA reconstruction, which successfully extracts such redundancies with a linear procedure, **without adapting to k-space signal characteristics.**
- The idea of using a larager class of nonlinear functions in **modeling redundancies among coils for GRAPPA has also been explored previously**, although a fixed nonlinear kernel mapping was used instead of the deep learning strategies explored here.
- Therefore, **the modeling of the multi-coil system with a non-linear approximation with few degrees of freedom**, instead of linear approximation with similarly few degrees of freedom, **is hypothesized to extract comparable coil information without overfitting**, while offering improved noise resilience.

### Noise in the Calibration data & non-linear estimation

- Another reason for using non-linear estimation relates to the presence of noise in the calibration data.
- For the GRAPPA formulation above, there is noise in both the target data, b, and the calibration matrix, A.
- When both sources of noise are present, it has been shown that linear convolutional kernels incur a bias when estimated via least squares, and this bias leads to non-linear effects on the estimation of missing k-space lines from acquired ones.
- In the presence of such data imperfections, which are in addition to the model mistmatches related to the degrees of freedom described earlier, a non-linear approximation procedure may improve reconstruction quality and reduce noise amplification.


### CNN for MRI reconstruction in k-space

- RAKI replaces **the linear estimation in GRAPPA that uses convolutional kerenels** with a non-linear estimation that uses CNNs.
- RAKI is designed to calibrate the CNN from ACS data without necessitating use of any external training database for learning.

### CNN은 real-valued numbers만 사용합니다.

- CNN literature and the associated deep learning procedures are commonly based on mappings over the real field.
- ***Therefore, before any processing, we map all the complex k-space data to real-valued numbers.***

### RAKI에서는 모든 layer들은 kernel dilation을 사용하여, acquired k-space lines만 process하도록 합니다.

### The main difference with GRAPPA

- **GRAPPA**: **solve a linear least squares problem** to calculate one set of convolutional kernels.
- **RAKI**: **solve a non-linear least squares** problem to calculate three sets of convolutional kernels. -> 별다른게 아니고 conv filter 3개에 대한 파라미터를 gradient descent로 찾습니다.

### ACS data

- **ACS data of size 40 was taken from the central k-space lines**, and this was used for the training of the CNN in RAKI reconstruction and for the determination of the convolutional kernels for GRAPPA reconstruction.
- RAKI는 3 layer CNN을 학습하고, GRAPPA는 convolutional kernels을 determine 합니다.
- Specifically, the CNNs in RAKI and the convolutional kernels in GRAPPA were estimated using ACS data from only one T1-weighted image.
- These CNNs and convolutional kernels then used to reconstruct all 11 images with varying T1 weights.
- ***Therefore, this tested whether RAKI captured the coil information, as in GRAPP or perfromed over-fitting to specific image or k-space features.***


### GRAPPA(linear)와 RAKI(non-linear)

- GRAPPA는 subject-specific linear convolution kerenels를 사용하여 parallel imaging reconstruction을 합니다.
- RAKI는 CNNs으로 non-linear function을 생성하여, k-space interpolation 을 합니다.
- RAKI는 Reduction factor, $R \in \{1,2,3,4,5,6\}$ 중 $R=4,5,6$ 에서 noise performance에서 GRAPPA보다 눈에 띄는 우위를 차지했습니다. (in phantom & in vivo imaging)
  - 다시말해, high acceleration rate에서 noise reduction에 강합니다.

### Immense MRI data

- Recent works have focused on training reconstruction algorithms on large amounts of data sets.
- **Big data training has led to different regularization approaches for MR images, most often as regularizers without an explicit formula and based on CNNs**, or as unsupervised learning of parameters for variational networks.
- ***RAKI took an MRI-focused approach and considered the problem as a k-space estimation problem instead of an image domain regualrization problem.***
- **This approach avoids dependency on large amounts of training data, and instead uses a small amount of ACS data, similar to existing parallel imaging reconstructions that are used in clinical practice.**
- 10 몇년 전에 scan-specific한 SENSE reconstruction을 improve하기 위해 neural networks가 사용되었지만, 이런 work들은 CNNs을 사용하지 않았습니다.

### Sparsity

- The nature of the ReLU function enables sparsitiy in representations.

### Nonelinear methods to GRAPPA

- The use of nonlinear methods to improve GRAPPA reconstruction has been explored before but without the use of concepts from neural networks.
  - A fixed set of virtual channels for a higher-dimensional feature space
  - or transform-domain sparsity has also been proposed before.
- **RAKI differs from these techniques, by regraining form any explicit assumptions on k-space or transform domains.**
- **RAKI instead uses neural networks to effectively represent a nonlinear function for estimating missing k-space data, successfully facilitating model-free reconstrcution.**

### ACS data --> shared across multiple scans (Multi-Contrast MR reconstruction)

- In most applications, where one is interested in these higher rates (e.g., diffusion, perfusion, or qauntitative MRI), it is not difficult to obtatin oneset of high-quality ACS data of sufficient size, which can be shared across multiple scans.
- 다른 contrast image의 ACS data를 충분히 취하여 사용할 수 있습니다. (multi contrast 연구로 확장가능)
- **다만 ACS를 CNN으로 처리하면, biase가 생겨서 multi-constrast에 사용하기 어렵습니다.**
  - Because of CNNs' additive nature, inclusion of biases increases the dependence on how the $l_2$ norm of the k-space is scaled.
  - This creates major limitations in processing data with multiple-varying contrast, as in quantitative MR parameter mapping, when training is done on one set of ACS data with a specific contrast weighting.


### GRAPPA & RAKI의 Computation 방식 차이

- GRAPPA: The calibration of GRAPPA kernel can be done with a simple linear least squares problem.
- RAKI: CNN needs to be trained with a gradient descent.


### RAKI 정리

- a scan-specific deep learning approach with convolutional neural networks trained on limitied ACS data to improve on the reconstruction quality of linear k-space interpolation-based methods (such as GRAPPA).

  
