---
published: true
title: "[MR 연구] ESPIRiT—An Eigenvalue Approach to AutocalibratingParallel MRI: Where SENSE Meets GRAPPA"
last_modified_at: 2024-07-30
categories:
  - 메디컬연구
tags:
  - 메디컬연구
  - MR Reconstruction
  - MRI
  - parallel imaging
  - GRAPPA
  - SENSE
  - ESPIRiT
  - autocalibration
  - eigenvalue
  - null space
excerpt: "ESPIRiT—An Eigenvalue Approach to AutocalibratingParallel MRI: Where SENSE Meets GRAPPA"
use_math: true
classes: wide
comments: true
---

> [[ESPIRiT—An Eigenvalue Approach to AutocalibratingParallel MRI: Where SENSE Meets GRAPPA](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4142121/)]

### Parallel imaging allows the reconstruction of images from undersampled multicoil data.

- **SENSE**: explicitly uses coil sensitivities
- **GRAPPA**: uses learned correlations in k-space
- **ESPIRiT**: uses SENSE & GRAPPA

### Null space (영공간)

- 선형 방정식 AX=b에서 b가 zero vector일때 즉 AX=0일때 모든 가능한 해 X에 대한 집합이다.
- 특정 행렬A와 X가 곱해졌는데 그게 0이 나올때 X의 집합, x가 이루는 공간을 Null space라고 한다.
- AX = 0 일 때 가능한 모든 해 X의 집합이 Null space 라고 볼 수 있다.

### Theory & Methods

- The correlation in k-space are encoded in the null space of a calibration matrix.
  - k-space 내의 correlation은 calibration matrix의 null space 공간에 인코딩 됩니다. (해 공간에 존재)
    
- Both approaches **restrict the solution to a subspace spanned by the sensitivities.**
  - coil sensitivities로 solution space를 제한합니다.
    
- **The sensitivities appear as the main eigenvector of a reconstruction operator computed from the null space.**

- 위 내용을 실험적으로 sensitivity maps의 quality를 평가하여 증명하였습니다.

### Parallel MRI

- In parallel MRI, data are simultaneously acquired from multiple receiver coils.
- Each coil exhibits a different spatial sensitivity profile, which acts as additional spatial encoding function.
- This can be used to accelerate the acquisition by subsampling k-space and reconstructing images by using the sensitivity information.

- **SENSE**: Reconstruction algorithms based on explicit knowledge of the coil sensitivities.
- **GRAPPA, SPIRIT**: algorithms based on local kernels in k-space, which exploit the learned correlation between multiple channels in neighboring points in k-space.

### Coil sensitivities 

- It is often very difficult to accurately and robustly measure the sensitivities and even small errors can result in inconsistencies that lead to visible artifacts in the image.
- Various algorithms have been developed to enable auto-calibration of the coil sensitivities and to improve the calibration, for example, by joint estimation of the sensitivities and image.

### ESPIRiT

- In this work, we bridge the gap by describing **SENSE** and **GRAPPA** as subspace methods, i.e., both **reconstruct missing data by restricting the solution to a subspace.**








